So what the heck is a cumulative flow diagram, and why do I need it?
Let's find out.
A cumulative flow diagram is a graph that shows the
quantity of work in a workflow step over time.
By observing the graph,
you can see the number of backlog items, work‑in‑progress
items, and delivered items over time.
Sure, but how would that help us?
Let's find out.
So why use cumulative flow diagrams, or CFDs?
Well,
they help you keep track of your work in progress,
they help you identify bottlenecks,
and therefore, they help you increase your team's productivity.
It is a continuous improvement tool.
A CFD is typically an area graph that depicts the quantity
of work in each value stream step, but it could also be a
stacked bar chart as well.
Here is an example of a cumulative flow diagram.
Each colored area represents a workflow step from our sample Kanban board,
and you can see the steps in the legend; backlog, specify,
implement, validate, and deliver.
The horizontal axis on the bottom shows the time period, and the time periods I
have chosen are daily, and the vertical axis shows the number of tasks in each
step for that day. And going through the chart, here is the backlog, specify,
implement and validate, the two narrow strips there, and deliver. The size of
the areas indicates how many work items are currently in each step for that
selected time period.
By using the CFD, you can measure the amount of work your team has delivered.
If the area, the purple area, of our CFD represents the deliver step,
then the slope of that line between any two points is your average
throughput between those points. As you can see, between April 20 and April
22, the number of tasks per day completed was growing.
And if the top of the purple line was flat, or let's say, falling,
then our productivity was also falling. Then you can inspect and
talk about the reasons; maybe you lost a resource, someone on
vacation, maybe you added a new tool,
or you just can't quite figure out the reason, and it might
take more time and thought with your team.
But as you can see,
this chart can provide a wealth of valuable
information to ensure a smooth workflow.
There are other great benefits of using CFDS,
such as if the work in progress line goes up, this means your team is
working on more tasks than they're able to handle at a time. Increase work
in progress usually results in increased lead times,
reduced team efficiency, and maybe even project delays.
CFDs allow you to see how much work is in each step in each day.
Now,
unusual variations may be cause for any changes in team size or priorities, for
example. CFDs can be used to measure your past performance.
You can see your average lead time over broad periods of time,
which can be a predictor to forecast your work.
This will be invaluable when your customer says to you, when will it be done?
And now you can better predict that.
And lastly,
there are a lot of other benefits you may want to further research on your own if you're interested.